people say it's too hard and competitive
to start a new website and do well
well they're wrong hey everyone i'm neil
patel and today i'm going to break down
the most realistic advice on how to
start a new website and how to get
traffic to it
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
look i want you to only start a website
if you have a few things clear this is
really important
one there's a hungry market for what
you're trying to sell or put content out
for or even if you're selling a product
or service same concept i need to do
keyword research and you can use tools
like ubersuggest to see if that keyword
is popular and being searched thousands
of times a month at least assuming a
high ticket item if not hundreds and
thousands of times a month two
you can put in the work eight hours a
week in your first six months at minimum
but that's not really enough being
honest
if you can't really put in the work
that
you need to hire people ideally you
should be putting in not 30 not 40. you
should be putting 60 plus hours a week i
know that sounds crazy but that's really
what it takes to succeed probably not
what you want to hear but i would feel
disingenuous if i lied to you
next you need to know that organic
traffic is a long-term play though you
can get some traffic since the early
days right so if you start up you can
generate a little bit of traffic here
and there by creating some content
you're probably only going to reap the
rewards of your efforts
more than a year from now in other words
from now until a year plus assuming you
do this consistently
you're not going to really reap the
rewards after year though you will
next you know the basic seo from cure
research and content creation knowing
this really does help you
or success and if you don't you can use
tools like ubersuggest you can find
neilpatel.com ubersis or just go to
ubersays.com or you can read some of my
blog articles or watch more videos like
this then you'll need to host your
website on a platform that is stable
fast and reliable i love wordpress i
love hosting solutions like dreamhost
i love you know woocommerce that's
another example of something that's
stable and if you decide to use
self-hosting it's tricky you'll have to
do a lot of technical optimization
yourself or you just use a platform like
dreamhost that does most the
optimization for you they'll work on
your load time they're super technical
and those guys know what they're doing
next you want to have a brand name that
resonates with your audience is your
domain easy to spell
if it's hard
that's not going to be good when you
tell people to go to your website you
kind of get screwed is your name
memorable
and when your brand or domain comes up
you want it for people to be easy not
just to remember but to type in and
ideally be short and to the point
hopefully you can also write tons of
content on the subject without getting
bored because if you get bored you're
going to want to give up
now here are the steps that you need to
take to get started once you meet all
the criterias above
i want you to first map out the
important keywords in your niche
right when you map them out you can go
to uber says type in any competitor
domain and it'll show you all the
keywords that they rank for that you
don't or you can type in your domain
name it'll show your competitor show you
what they rank for and you don't i then
want you to prioritize the keywords that
are less difficult to rank for right and
uber says tells you that because it'll
tell you which keywords you can rank on
page one for in the keyword ideas report
and when you put in your domain it'll
fill to all the keywords for you then
come up with a plan that revolves around
the content clusters so you can
gradually build up your authority in
those topics see
google wants to rank a site that
specializes i mainly talk about digital
marketing if i start talking about
entrepreneurship and nfts and crypto go
be like this neil guy's not an expert in
anything he's talking about everything
if i start talking about the pandemic
and medical solutions in cancer they'll
be like neil's not a doctor he doesn't
know about any of the stuff we're not
going to take his advice you need to
specialize that's how you beat the
wikipedias without having as much
authority
then i want you to use google search
console from day one don't wait to set
it up set it up from day one it'll tell
your impressions what you're getting
traction on and what you need to do
better flex up your content as well
through
creation muscles on a daily basis in
other words try creating content on a
daily basis whether you're just busting
out your phone being like let me take a
selfie that's an example of content
creation or whether you're writing a
blog article or whether you're producing
a podcast and just recording into your
phone that's all content creation heck i
could be walking throughout my day and
my job with my daughter or my wife and i
could be recording a podcast at the same
time
knocking two birds with one stone
although i don't really do that because
i like spending time with my family but
you get the point if you're walking by
yourself you can report a cod cast at
the same time you're flexing your
creation muscles and don't skip or
overdo the technical seo do it once a
month prioritize your efforts by looking
at the pages that's starting to get the
most traction on search and if you don't
know where to prioritize with your
on-page seo go to ubersudus put in your
url look at the site audit report and
follow the suggestions top to bottom
when you go top to bottom uber says is
breaking down the ones at the top
because they'll have the most impact for
your seo and the ones at the bottom
because you still need to do them but
they're not going to impact your
rankings as much now if you need help
with any of this check out my ad agency
np digital where we help companies of
all sizes grow their traffic and sales
through the web
and if you have any questions leave a
comment below i'm here to help thank you
for taking the time to watch this video
i really appreciate it make sure you
like it share it tell the people about
it thank you very much